SkillsBuild Training
Course Sign In 

Buy a Course 
IT Certification Guides 
Blog 
About Us 
Contact Us
Visit Our YouTube Channel
We will show you how to become a Highly Paid IT Pro...FAST!

Home » Blog » 10 IT Certifications That Pay Over $100,000

10 IT Certifications That Pay Over $100,000
By A.P. Samuel | Mar 27, 2021


FacebookTwitterGoogle+PinterestLinkedIn
According to data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, jobs in the computer and information technology sector are expected to grow 11% from 2019 through 2029, much faster than the average for all occupations.

The median salary in the sector is $88,240, significantly higher than the median annual wage for all occupations of $39,810.


 
Certifications are a practical way to start a career in IT.


 
Certifications help you validate your skills in certain areas. Companies prefer candidates with certifications, given they have the required experience, and aptitude.

In this article we discuss the 10 best certifications you can consider for a salary of over $100,000 USD.

#1 – PMP
Project Management is one of the most in-demand skills globally.

Project Management Professional, or PMP, is the hottest Project Management certification offered by the Project Management Institute.

As of the 31st July 2020, there are over 1 million active PMP certified individuals worldwide.


 
The PMP certification covers the Project Management Lifecycle, including, Project Initiation, Planning, Execution, Monitoring & Control, and Closing. This knowledge is extremely useful for IT projects.

The average salary for the PMP certification is $112,000 US dollars, according to PMI’s Project Management Salary Survey.

#2 – AWS Solutions Architect
The AWS Solutions Architect certification validates your skills in the design, development, and deployment of efficient, scalable, cost-effective and fault-tolerant systems using Amazon’s Cloud platform.

An AWS Solutions Architect helps companies design and develop complex AWS solutions to solve problems.


 
Amazon offers this certification at both the Associate and Professional levels.


 
A basic understanding of Cloud Computing, IT, Data Storage, and Programming Concepts is recommended before attempting this certification.

The average salary for the AWS Solutions Architect certification is $113,585, according to PayScale.

#3 – Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP)
Certified Information Systems Security Professional, or CISSP, is an advanced certification that validates your skills in security, risk management, network security, identity and access management, software deployment security, and security operations.

You will need to have at least 5 years of experience in a relevant domain to be eligible for CISSP.

Companies hire CISSP holders for various roles including Threat Analyst, Cybersecurity Expert, SOC Analyst, and Information Security Expert.

The demand for CISSP holders is rising as companies scramble to secure their online assets and data.

According to PayScale, the average salary for CISSP is $114,000.

#4 – AWS Certified DevOps Engineer
DevOps is a relatively new approach in software delivery and deployment.

DevOps makes it easier for companies to create, deliver, and deploy complex software projects on a variety of platforms and infrastructures.


 
As companies adapt AWS, they need AWS DevOps experts.


 
AWS Certified DevOps Engineer certification validates skills related to continuous delivery, deployment, monitoring, security, and governance related to AWS.

Amazon recommends the Professional version of this certification to those who have at least two years of experience in provisioning, operating, and managing AWS environments.

This certification exam tests your knowledge in areas such as, SDLC Automation, Configuration Management and Infrastructure, Monitoring, Logging, Standards Automation, Incident Response, High Availability & Fault Tolerance, and Disaster Recovery.

According to PayScale, the average salary for the AWS Certified DevOps Engineer certification is $121,000.

#5 – Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control (CRISC)
CRISC stands for Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control. The certification is offered by ISACA and validates expert-level skills in Risk Management.

CRISC has a huge demand in software companies related to cybersecurity, government projects, infrastructure, robotics, healthcare, and AI.

CRISC not only trains you on risk management, it also teaches you how to resolve problems, mitigate risks, monitor, and control complex Information Systems.

It is designed for Executives, Business Analysts, Project Managers, Agile Coaches, and Solutions Architects.

Companies hire CRISC holders for roles like IT Auditor, Risk Analyst, Cyber Risk Analyst, Information Security Expert, and Project Manager.

According to PayScale, the average salary for the CRISC certification is over $123,000.

#6 – Certified Information Security Manager (CISM)
Certified Information Security Manager certification is offered by the Information Systems Audit and Control Association, or ISACA, an international professional association focused on IT governance.

CISM is an advanced certification designed for those who want to take their Information Security career to the next level.

The certification involves four key areas:

Information Security Management
Information Risk Management & Compliance
Incident Management, and
Information Security Program Development & Compliance
To be eligible for CISM, you must have at least five years of experience in Information Security Management.

Companies hire individuals with CISM for a variety of roles, including Information Security Officer, Information Security Director, Security Architect, and Security Consultant.


 
The average salary for the CISM certification is $126,747, according to PayScale.

#7 – Salesforce Certified Technical Architect
Salesforce is a thriving CRM platform. There are estimates that there would be 3.3 million new Salesforce jobs by 2022.

Salesforce has designed its Technical Architect certification to teach and validate skills related to designing complex systems that are fault-tolerant, available, scalable, and cost effective.

This certification involves technical concepts like system architecture, data, security of Salesforce systems, integration with third-party tools via APIs, and different approaches to crafting solutions.

The average salary for this certification is $132,000, according to GlassDoor.

#8 – Google Certified Cloud Architect
Google Cloud Platform’s popularity is rising because of its pricing and the level of flexibility it offers, as compared to its competitors like AWS and Azure.

In the third quarter, Google Cloud revenue jumped 45% to reach $3.44 billion.

As the platform grows, companies need Google Cloud Architects to design and develop robust Cloud solutions.

Google Professional Cloud Architect certification will validate your skills in the design, management, and deployment of robust Cloud solutions.

The certification will also teach you how to design for security and compliance, optimize business promises using the power of Cloud, and ensure operations reliability.

Google recommends having over 3 years of industry experience for this certification.

The average salary for Google Cloud Architect certification is $135,000, according to ZipRecruiter.

#9 – Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE)
Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert, or CCIE, is an advanced certification offered by Cisco.

The certification has several areas of specialization, like CCIE Enterprise Infrastructure, CCIE Enterprise Wireless, CCIE Data Center, CCIE Security, CCIE Service Provider, and CCIE Collaboration.

Each CCIE certification has two exams: a core exam to test and validate conceptual knowledge, and a hands-on lab/practical exam to test your application of the technical concepts.

Cisco is continuously doing revamps to its certification, keeping the material and skills involved relevant to the rapidly changing IT industry.

According to the Robert Half Technology Salary Guide, CCIE is one of the most valuable IT certifications.

The average CCIE salary according to ZipRecruiter is $149,846.

#10 – Microsoft Azure Solutions Architect Certification
Microsoft Azure is rapidly expanding its footprint in the IT industry worldwide.

The Azure Cloud platform now owns close to 20% of the entire commercial Cloud market.

As more and more companies deploy Azure, the demand for Azure experts is skyrocketing.

Microsoft Certified Azure Solutions Architect Expert certification will show you how to, understand, design, and oversee large Cloud solutions that are available, secure, efficient and scalable on demand.

Key concepts involved in the certification include implementing and monitoring Azure infrastructure, security solutions, designing identity and security systems for Azure, and deploying data storage solutions.

According to GlassDoor, the average salary for the Microsoft Azure Solutions Architect Expert certification is about $163,000.



 

Recommended for you
Top 2017 Certifications To Jump Start Your Career In IT
6 Exciting Ways an IT Certification Can Boost Your Chances in the Job Market
IT Certifications vs College Degrees – Which is Better for an IT Career?
How to Start a Lucrative Cyber Security IT Career
Contact Information:
1440 52 St NE 204 Suite 302, Calgary, AB T2A 4T8, Canada

Contact SkillsBuild via Phone
855-205-8263

Contact Us 

Course Features
Course Features
Live Instructor Support
Live Practice Labs
Our Guarantee
Learn More About Us
About Us
Why SkillsBuild?
Our Instructors
Our Blog
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Follow us on Social Media
Get the latest on new courses, course updates, industry news, and resources.

We will never share or abuse your information.
SkillsBuild Training
Copyright © 2021 All Rights Reserved by SkillsBuild Training

